David Wendland: Hi everyone,
I'm David Wendland,
a commerce technical advocate
for the App Store.
I'm excited to be
here today, virtually,
to share what our whole team
has been working on.
Before I begin, I'd like my
Cupertino-based colleagues
to introduce themselves.
Manjeet Chawla: Hi, my name
is Manjeet Chawla,
and I'm a technical program
manager for the App Store.
Joe Mani: Hi, I'm Joe.
I'm a program manager
for the App Store.
David: The three of us today
are presenting you
a three-part series titled
"Support Customers with StoreKit
2 and App Store Server API."
We will focus on how
the StoreKit 2 framework
and the abilities of
the App Store Server API
can improve in-app purchase,
customer support,
and handling refunds.
These three parts we hope
will give you insights,
approaches, and benefits
to consider when planning
your app and customer experience
enhancements.
I'll get going with
in-app purchases
by starting with an overview
of our Fall launch,
and what's new from client
to server to sandbox.
And then I'll cover some
implementation approaches
to consider to help you
strategize and prioritize
your roadmap when looking
to integrate these updates.
Let's get started
with what's new.
With iOS 15,
we went back to the start
and created an all-new
and improved framework
to simplify the client
implementation with StoreKit 2.
This brought more
on-device functionality,
improved status information,
and now transactions
use the JWS format
for added security.
In addition, we introduced
three standalone features
to provide more services
to the customers
directly within your app.
From the server side,
we made a significant update
to the existing App Store
Server Notifications
with the launch of Version 2.
This greatly expanded the number
of supported purchase events
and also uses
the new JWS format.
Lastly, we released
a suite of features
with our App Store Server API.
It has an array of endpoints
to support different abilities,
from retrieving a customer's
purchase history
or providing you a subscriber's
current subscription status.
The other abilities cover
a variety of
customer management scenarios
which my colleagues,
Manjeet and Joe,
will be covering shortly.
This year's extensive
list of updates illustrates
our continued investment in
in-app purchase with StoreKit.
Overall, these improve security,
reduce complexity,
and make it easier
to test in-app purchases
in Sandbox and Xcode.
When we look at our platform,
with features like
Touch ID and Face ID,
we use secure biometrics
and frictionless authentication
to allow customers to purchase
securely and conveniently
on more than
1.5 billion devices.
The App Store now has
600 million weekly visitors
across 175 storefronts,
in over 40 languages.
You can adjust
price tiers per territory
and next year we'll be expanding
the number of supported
price tiers to over 500,
giving you more pricing options
and providing tailored
price points
for each currency and market.
With 45 supported currencies
across 195 payment methods,
we work to make it more
convenient for our customers
to use their preferred
payment method
and the ability to stack them.
While we continue
these platform improvements,
I'd now like to dig in
to StoreKit 2
and highlight its benefits
and key enhancements
over original StoreKit
for you to consider.
When we look at
a key feature of StoreKit 2,
it synchronizes new
in-app purchase transactions
automatically across
all the customer's devices.
This enables you to provide
a consistent and reliable
experience in your app.
This framework supports
on-device purchase validation
and is streamlined compared
to the earlier framework,
so you do not have
to entirely depend on
server-side purchase validation.
All transactions are signed
using JWS,
so that you can verify
the authenticity
of each transaction.
And the framework provides
entitlement status information
on-device,
which reduces complexity
so you can ensure proper
entitlement access.
And new with iOS 15
is appAccountToken,
which allows you to set
the in-app account
that initiated the purchase
and have it returned
with completed transactions.
Additionally, there are
some unique standalone
StoreKit 2 features
that can work alongside
the original StoreKit
framework.
So your app today using
original StoreKit with iOS 15
could also add these
independent StoreKit 2 features
to offer in-app experiences
that typically would occur
outside of your app.
The first is
showManageSubscriptions.
This allows subscribers
to manage their subscription
without leaving your app.
Then we have
beginRefundRequest,
where you can present
transactions to a customer
for which they can
initiate a refund request
from within your app.
And with this, in Sandbox,
this allows you to test
and simulate a refund from
pending to approved or declined.
We've also introduced
an ability to make it easier
to check a customer's
introductory offer eligibility.
This is important
as you want to ensure
when merchandising an offer,
like a free trial,
that when they complete
the purchase,
they are in fact
given the offer.
With StoreKit 2, this check
can quickly be done
with isEligibleForIntroOffer
method,
and passing in
a subscription group ID.
This checks if they have ever
consumed any type
of introductory offer
for any subscription
within that subscription group.
In addition, you should
also be merchandising
the introductory offer only
if it was returned by StoreKit.
That would come from
Product.SubscriptionOffer,
where it will return
the introductory offer details
if available.
If it is not, then it will not
be returned by StoreKit,
thus preventing you
from merchandising an offer
that isn't available.
So it's important that
this is not hardcoded
and instead, your app
leverages StoreKit,
which uses
the start and end dates
configured in App Store Connect.
Now I want to move server side
and discuss features
of the App Store Server API,
where requests
are made server-to-server
without any customer
interaction.
We'll start with
subscription status.
This provides the state
of the customer's subscription
with your app.
And if you have multiple
subscription offerings,
then you will have
an entitlement state
per subscription,
each represented by
a unique original
transaction ID.
A great part
of subscription status
is it only returns the current
JWS signed transaction
for each subscription,
so no need for logic
on your server
to parse through a customer's
transaction history,
trying to determine
their current transaction
or which product to entitle.
Now if you are a multiplatform
service provider,
you can use this service
to get the current status
at any time,
server-to-server,
without your app running,
and all you need
is the customer's
original transaction ID;
no more app receipt.
Here are some best practices
we recommend.
It is important you always store
the unique original transaction
IDs in your database
after every purchase
or restored transaction.
This value represents
each subscription offering,
which is critical to track
the subscription lifecycle
from initial purchase
to renewals,
to a billing issue
and recovery,
or upgrades and downgrades.
This ID is used with the client
and the server API,
along with server notifications.
Lastly, subscription status
should only be used
server-to-server
as a security best practice.
If you need to check the status
directly from your app,
then the StoreKit 2 framework
has your solution.
The next feature
with the server API
is in-app purchase history,
where you can retrieve,
server-to-server,
the complete and latest history
of transactions for a customer.
The history will include
all nonconsumables,
nonrenewing subscriptions,
autorenewable subscriptions,
and any unfinished
consumable purchases,
and all will be secure,
JWS signed transactions.
Now, having a history
of transactions
and all original transaction IDs
will help
when implementing
the beginRefundRequest API,
as you will need
to surface transactions
for the customer
to choose from
in order to initiate
the refund request.
For nonsubscription
in-app purchases
in apps using
the original StoreKit,
you can move away
from verifyReceipt
and use this API to validate
successful purchases
or check for updates
in case of an outage.
For its best practices,
some customers may have
many purchases,
so the response will contain
up to 20 transactions at a time.
When there are additional
transactions,
be sure to use
the hasMore field.
When true,
use the revision token
in that response
and your subsequent request
to get that next page
of transactions.
Repeat until the hasMore field
returns false
and save that revision token
for the future.
That will help you
quickly retrieve
the latest transactions
of a customer,
using that recorded
revision token
so that you do not
have to paginate again.
Another important best practice
is using finishTransaction
after products or services
have been delivered.
Unfinished transactions
will remain in the queue
and help your app
to keep track of purchases
that need to be delivered
to your customers.
This is critical in case there
was any interruption on-device.
A final recommendation
regarding refunded
or revoked transactions
is if you want to receive
updates on these
as quickly and efficiently
as possible,
then look to Version 2
server notifications.
These are much more efficient
than polling any of our APIs.
Now look at our server
notifications.
These are sent in near real-time
directly to your server
for key purchase events
and status changes.
This year we dramatically
refined this feature
with Version 2
to make them more effective,
easier to use,
and provide more granularity.
We doubled the number
of supported events,
bringing that total
to 28 unique events!
With Version 2 we only send
a single notification per event,
so you can take specific actions
when received.
And these notifications
also apply to family members
who have access
through Family Sharing
for in-app purchases.
And for any failed notification
deliveries,
we will retry up to five times
over a period of seven days,
to account for any outages.
And of course, Version 2
is available in Sandbox,
so you can develop safely
in our test environment.
For some best practices,
when receiving
these notifications,
it is important to respond with
an HTTP 200 Response Code
when it was
successfully received.
This indicates to us that you
have received the notification
and that you do not
need us to resend.
If your servers return an error
or don't respond,
the App Store will resend
the same notification payload.
Within each notification
is the signedDate;
you can know exactly when that
original notification was sent.
And you can validate
the authenticity
of received notifications using
the JWS signed transaction info,
so you can have confidence
that these were signed
by the App Store.
And be sure to take advantage
of the new ability
to provide unique server URLs
for sandbox and production
events.
And as a final best practice,
apply the notification updates
immediately.
Some events are time-sensitive,
such as upgrades or refunds.
Therefore, processing these
in near real-time
can be beneficial.
And our last update
to brief you on
is our updates
in App Store Connect
to help with testing in-app
purchases in Sandbox.
You will find these features
accessible
in the Users & Access tab
under Sandbox testers.
As you may know already,
in Sandbox today,
subscriptions renew
at an accelerated rate
to support testing.
Now we've added the ability
to slow down or accelerate
that renewal rate
per Sandbox Apple ID,
just like you can with StoreKit
testing in Xcode.
This should be helpful
for scenarios
when you need more time
to perform actions
between the renewals.
To help with testing across
different storefronts,
now you can
change the storefront
for a Sandbox Apple ID
at any time.
And to further expand the use
of a single Sandbox Apple ID,
you can now clear
its purchase history
of autorenewable subscriptions
and nonconsumables,
allowing you, for example,
to purchase content
or redeem introductory offers
repeatedly.
Now that we've covered
some of the benefits
and best practices of StoreKit 2
and the Server API,
let's review some approaches
for you to consider
when preparing to integrate
these features and abilities
into your app or server.
When we think about
in-app purchases,
we primarily think about
entitling customers
with their purchases
and handling status changes.
To do this, you have to choose
to go with an on-device
approach --
where you do it all locally
without any server backend --
or you leverage
serve-to-server APIs,
where your server
is the source of truth.
Let's start with on-device.
This is where the StoreKit 2
framework provides your app
the ability to fully manage
in-app purchases
and status changes
all on-device,
without requiring a server.
This can be very helpful
for small businesses
and those without
an existing server backend.
To do this, you start with these
three core functional pieces
of StoreKit 2
to support the purchase flow.
Your app will use Products
to retrieve your available
products and its details
to drive the merchandising
within your app.
This ensures its always
accurate and in sync
with the App Store.
And now with StoreKit 2,
you will have VerificationResult
and PurchaseResult,
which together are used
to validate the authenticity
of the transaction
after a successful purchase
or restored transaction.
Another key benefit
of the StoreKit 2 framework
is its ability to keep your app
up-to-date for any transaction.
Customers may have
multiple devices,
and with Transaction.updates,
your app will be kept in sync
no matter what device
the transaction originated on.
With currentEntitlement method,
your app can quickly
get the immediate status
for your customer's purchases,
so you can immediately
grant those products
to the customers --
all without requiring them
to login
or perform a Restore Purchases,
as you have the latest
transaction details.
Lastly, we understand
how important it is to get
the autorenewable subscription
information on-device,
not just about
the product itself
but about the current
subscriber's status
and their upcoming
renewal period.
For that we have
Product.SubscriptionInfo.
So with these six core functions
that I just covered,
you can take advantage
of StoreKit 2 on iOS 15
and reduce or eliminate
your dependency on a server
to deliver the best
customer experience.
Now, when we think about
a server-to-server architecture,
this is critical
for multiplatform
or multiapp services
where customers expect to access
their services reliably,
and your systems are required
to keep updated on the status
of their purchases
at any time in real time.
Typically in this setup,
you have your server
as the source of truth,
where it is online 24/7
to receive
and check for updates
with the App Store at any time.
But let's look at this flow
from your app's perspective.
Here we have
the customer's device,
and let's assume
your app is running
using the original StoreKit
framework to initiate purchases
and using App Store
verifyReceipt server
for purchase validation.
This means your app sends
the Base64-encoded app receipt
to your server after a purchase
or restore event,
and then it's sent
to the verifyReceipt server.
The App Store will respond with
the customer's transactions,
where now your server will need
to parse through
those transactions
to evaluate
and determine the status
and what actions
need to be taken server-side
or within your app.
Now, you may have asked
yourself this question.
The good news is no,
the App Store Server API
has no dependency on your app
adopting the entire
StoreKit 2 framework.
This means you can
take advantage
of the new functionality
available
with the App Store Server API
right away,
all while your app continues
using original StoreKit.
Let's walk through
how you can do this.
With that same design,
you would need to make
two primary changes.
First, we'll update your app
to retrieve the original
transaction ID.
Second, you'll update
your server
to use the App Store Server API.
These two changes allow your app
to use original StoreKit
or StoreKit 2,
making it easy
to support the latest app
version on any iOS version.
To do that first change
and start using
the original_transaction_ID
going forward,
you will replace your logic
that retrieves the Base64
app receipt.
To do this, you may have
been using
the app receipt URL method.
Go ahead and replace it
with this property
for autorenewable
subscriptions.
And for other in-app
purchase types,
you'll use this similar
property.
Now let's update your server
to use the App Store Server API.
You'll change from
/verifyReceipt
to the /History or
/SubscriptionStatus URL.
Requests will use JWT
for authorization,
and you'll use the original
transaction ID going forward.
With these completed
changes,
you no longer have entitlement
logic to maintain on your server
and you now can use
secure JWS signed transactions
and have eliminated the need
to store app receipts.
So if your app supports
older versions of iOS,
this gives you a path
to take advantage
of what App Store Server API
has to offer.
Now earlier, we mentioned how
StoreKit 2 and the server API
handle determining subscription
state for you.
Now as a best practice,
your app should always
determine the subscriber state
upon app launch.
Once the state is determined,
it can be stored locally
and updated as needed.
I want to briefly review
these five states we return
and the actions you need
to take for each,
along with some opportunities
to consider.
Now it should be noted,
a new customer would not
have any of these states,
and that is a state your app
needs to manage as well.
Starting with Active state,
this means service should
be provided to the customer
until their expires date.
Now If you provide
multiple levels of service,
one opportunity
could be to surface
an upgrade offer in-app
using promotional offers.
Note that such offers should be
tailored to the customer
based on their past
subscription history.
Now when a subscription
has fully churned,
you will have
the state of Expired.
No service needs to be provided
and you can merchandise
your current
subscription offering.
Optionally, you can leverage
promotional offers
or subscription offer codes
to present a win-back offer.
If they resubscribe within
60 days of their expires date,
their existing accrued
paid days of service
will resume towards
the 85 percent proceeds rate.
Next is billing retry period.
We all experience billing issues
from time to time;
credit cards can expire
or store credit can be consumed.
These subscriptions
were expected to autorenew,
but due to their
payment method issue,
they fell into what we call
the billing retry period.
While the subscription
is expired
and no service
needs to be rendered,
the customer also doesn't need
to resubscribe;
they simply need to resolve
their billing issue.
We will automatically
reattempt to retry
and recover the subscription
for up to 60 days
through various
customer communications
without any developer action.
But with in-app messaging,
you could directly alert the
customer to their billing issue
and provide a valuable
call to action
that can deep link the customer
to their payment info page
to resolve.
Next is grace period, which is
related to billing retry
but only applies
to your subscribers
if you have opted in to
App Store Billing Grace Period
in App Store Connect.
For this state, you will
continue providing service
with no disruption until
the grace period expires date.
If we recover the subscriber
during their grace period,
they will retain
their original billing cycle.
Therefore, they have
no disruption in service
and the provider avoids
any lost billable days.
Now just like billing retry,
you also want to provide
that same in-app messaging
to alert them
to their billing issue.
Lastly, when you see
the Revoked state,
this applies to a subscription
that is family shareable.
These family members
are no longer entitled
to that service or content,
so access can be revoked
and you can merchandise offers
to reacquire these customers.
In my final portion,
I want to dive into
some implementation approaches
for you to consider
when using App Store
Server Notifications.
When you look at
all these events supported,
you can see
there are quite a few,
and some may or not apply
to your business.
Many are part of
the subscription lifecycle,
while others apply to all
in-app purchase types.
If you are not offering
a subscription,
then your implementation
approach
is more straightforward, as
subscriptions are more complex
and you can avoid many of those
events that simply don't apply.
But let's review
these different phases
of implementation
for you to consider.
We broke it into three:
getting started,
supporting the lifecycle,
and taking action on insights.
When adopting Version 2,
this getting started phase
applies to everyone,
no matter your business model
or if you have or have not
already adopted Version 1
notifications.
The first step will be
getting Version 2
enabled in App Store Connect.
You'll find this feature
under App Information,
titled "App Store
Server Notifications."
And with the Fall updates,
now you can choose the URLs
specifically for Sandbox
and production.
You can add that URL and choose
which version to receive.
And if you are receiving
Version 1 already,
we suggest to only enable
Version 2 in Sandbox
to allow for development
before enabling in production.
Now that we've enabled
Version 2,
we want to look
at the prioritization,
so evaluate which notifications
to support first
based on your business model
and usage.
To help, you should focus
on key, high-volume events
that apply the most to your
business and roadmap.
One event that applies
to all in-app purchase types
are refunds.
You receive a single
REFUND notification
for each transaction that is
refunded to the customer.
How you process those events
will be up to your policies
and business model.
Now, for subscription-based
businesses,
these four notifications
apply to the primary events
in a subscription journey,
from initial purchase
or resubscribe
to a successful renewal,
or failure, into expiration.
By prioritizing to take action
on these five notification
types,
means you will have support
for the majority of the events
that you could receive.
That first phase provides
a solid foundation
and allowed you
to maximize your return.
Now you can look to complete
your support
of all notification types
in this next phase.
There are just a few remaining
subscription-based
notifications,
while the others are dependent
upon feature adoption.
Let's review.
These two types apply
to all subscription-based apps,
DID_CHANGE_RENEWAL_STATUS
and preference.
These are critical
for identifying a customer
cancelling or changing
their level of service.
When considering
these remaining types,
these are dependent
upon your usage.
So GRACE_PERIOD_EXPIRED
applied if you have enabled
Billing Grace Period
in App Store Connect.
RENEWAL_EXTENDED
is sent if you have extended
a subscriber's renewal
with the App Store Server API.
And REVOKE applies
if products have been enabled
for Family Sharing
for in-app purchases.
OFFER REDEEMED applies
when using
subscription offer codes
or promotional offers.
And PRICE_INCREASE is sent
if the price of an autorenewable
subscription has been raised.
And then we have
REFUND_DECLINED
and CONSUMPTION_REQUEST.
Joe will be covering these
in-depth
in his part on handling refunds.
Lastly, we can move on
to the action on insights phase.
By this point, you are now
receiving and taking action
on all relevant events
for your business.
This ensures your service
knows the current status
of all customer subscriptions,
or any access changes
to purchased consumables,
nonconsumables,
or nonrenewing subscriptions.
With subscriptions,
the following notifications
identify customers
in a very specific state,
thus enabling your business to
take specific proactive actions
where you can identify
and intelligently engage,
retain, and win back
subscribers.
Here are some example
notification types
where you can identify
key events
in a window of opportunity
to engage with your customers,
provide proactive
in-app messaging,
or present tailored
subscription offers.
Let's look at one example:
a customer cancelling
their subscription.
In this scenario, let's say
the subscriber purchased
a monthly subscription
on November 25.
Then on December 5,
the subscriber
has chosen to cancel
with 20 days remaining
in their current period.
This is our save period,
from the time
the subscriber cancelled
to the time the subscription
will expire
and voluntarily churn.
Now when that cancel
action occurs,
the autorenew state
is set to false,
immediately triggering
the App Store to send
a DID_CHANGE_RENEWAL_STATUS
notification
with a subtype of
AUTO_RENEW_DISABLED,
alerting you in real-time to
the beginning of a save period.
This window of opportunity
allows your service
to present tailored
in-app messaging
or merchandise save offers
before their expiration.
It's important such offers
are tailored
and have eligibility criteria
for each customer cohort.
This concludes my portion.
Now I'd like to introduce
my colleague, Manjeet.
Manjeet: Thanks, Dave!
My name is Manjeet Chawla,
and I am a technical program
manager at the App Store.
Now, Dave talked about
how you can use StoreKit 2
and App Store Server API
to improve in-app purchases.
Now, let's review
those exact same APIs
from a customer
support perspective.
I will talk about some
common support scenarios
that customers face today
with in-app purchases
and best practices to leverage
these APIs for those scenarios.
But before I talk about
customer support,
let's understand
how providing support
impacts your overall
customer management.
You may be relying
on various CRM tools
and systems like acquisition,
analysis, customer support,
and various marketing
communication channels.
And providing support
keeps your customers happy
and engaged with the product
and improving your overall
customer relationships
and satisfaction.
Now we know customers
reach out to you for help
and the App Store has created
tools for you to provide support
and resolve issues efficiently.
And today, I will talk about
five new customer support tools
to assist you with inquiries
across all your support channels
starting with
the Look up Order ID.
Today, when customers make
an in-app purchase,
they get a receipt sent
to their Apple ID
and they also can also
access this receipt at any time
by looking at the purchase
history under Account Settings.
And now,
when a customer contacts you,
your support team
can ask the customer
for the Order ID on this receipt
and call a new
App Store Server API
to lookup customer's in-app
purchases for that receipt
by using the order ID.
You can also use this API
to validate the authenticity
of the receipt
and to associate transactions
within that receipt
to a customer.
Additionally,
you can use this API
to identify any issues
within the purchase.
For example, if the transaction
contains any purchases
that have already been refunded
or revoked by the App Store,
you can look at
the revocationDate
and revocationReason
in the response
to get more details
about the refund.
And once you implement
this API,
you will be able to look up
historical purchases
for an order ID when a customer
contacts you for support.
For best practices, store
the original_transaction_id
for all in-app purchases
in a customer account database.
And when a customer contacts you
for support,
you can easily use this API
to look up and associate
a customer's purchases
within your account database.
You can even integrate this API
with your existing
customer support channels
like phone, email, or web
to provide a consistent support
experience for your customers.
Next, let's talk about
Refund Lookup.
In WWDC20, the App Store
introduced refund notifications
to notify your server each time
a customer has been successfully
refunded for an in-app purchase.
The Refund Lookup is
a brand-new App Store Server API
that lets you lookup
all the refunded transactions
for a customer.
This API enables you
to handle server outages
or schedule maintenance by
looking up refunds at any time
in a quick and easy manner.
Additionally, you can identify a
customer's entire refund history
across all their in-app
purchase types.
You can also use
this API to monitor
any spikes in the refund
or suspicious activity,
and it can respond
to content delivery issues
that might be leading
to refunds.
For best practices,
if you are storing
the original_transaction_id
for each in-app purchase in
a customer account database,
you can use any of their
original_transaction_ids
to look up their past refunds.
And you can troubleshoot
any content delivery issues
for a customer that might be
leading to refunds
by using the Refund Lookup API.
Now let's shift gears
to talk specifically about
autorenewable subscriptions.
For example, a scenario
where there was an outage
or an event was canceled
which might be more common
for streaming-based apps
such as sports, live TV,
or video.
For these outages
or canceled events,
how can you appease customers?
You can now use a new
Renewal Extension Server API
to extend the renewal date
for a paid active subscription
and give customers free service
for an additional time.
You can use this API
to handle temporary outages
and also to provide appeasement;
for example,
when the customer had a bad
experience with the service.
Note that you can
extend the renewal date
for a customer's subscription
twice within a year --
each time, up to 90 days --
regardless of the actual
subscription duration.
Also note, this extension period
does not count towards
the one year of paid service
needed to receive
an 85 percent proceeds rate.
For best practices, store
the original_transaction_id
to identify the subscriptions
you wish to extend
the renewal date for.
Identify the extension period
that works best for
your business model
and show in-app messaging
when you extend
a customer's subscription.
And because there can only be
two extensions
per customer in a year,
you may want to maintain
an eligibility criteria
for your customers who are
eligible for an extension.
And always align with your
business and marketing teams
to provide a consistent
messaging
across all your communication
channels.
Now let's discuss
a different scenario
where you may want
to compensate a customer
by providing a one-time discount
for their subscription.
In iOS 14,
the App Store introduced
subscription offer codes
to help you acquire, retain,
and win back subscribers
by providing a subscription
at a discount or free
for a limited time.
You can distribute these
one-time, unique codes
either using online
or offline channels.
And for customer service issues,
you can provide these
one-time codes as compensation
for the service issue.
You might also use this
as an opportunity
to suggest an alternative
subscription option;
for example,
a longer duration plan
that provides more value
at a lower price.
Customers on iOS 14
and iPadOS 14 and later
can redeem offer codes
on the App Store
through a one-time code
redemption URL,
or within the app
if you've implemented
the presentCodeRedemptionSheet
API in StoreKit.
Now, for best practices, provide
a redemption flow inside the app
for customers to redeem the code
along with customized
in-app messaging
and description
for the offer code
to help customers
make an informed decision.
And use this
within your existing
customer support channels
such as phone, email, web,
or even within your app,
for example,
when the customer is chatting
with your support team
in a live chat session.
Now, if you're distributing
these codes
on digital marketing channels
such as email,
each code will have
an associated redemption URL
with the code prepopulated.
You will be able to use
a unique URL
to seamlessly deep link
the customer from your email
into the redemption flow
which occurs on the App Store.
This URL is comprised
of two values:
the ID, which represents
your application's ID,
so it will be static
for each of your applications;
and the second value
is the code,
where you will dynamically
populate the URL
with the subscribers unique
alphanumeric value.
Now, if that URL were
embedded in an email,
then tapping it would take
the user into the App Store
to complete the transaction.
Some things to note:
the subscriber here never sees
the code during this flow,
and when completed,
it would be another
external transaction
that your app
will need to fulfill
when the customer launches
the application again.
Next, let's cover a scenario
where the customer wants
to manage their subscription.
In StoreKit 2, we launched
a new manage subscriptions API
that enables you to display the
existing manage subscriptions
right within the app.
Supporting subscription
management in-app
means customers
can upgrade, downgrade,
or cancel a subscription
without ever leaving your app.
This also gives you
a natural place to provide help
for common subscriber issues
and present alternative offers
for customers to consider.
And you can use this opportunity
to present a personalized
save offer
before they see
the manage subscriptions page;
for example, if their engagement
has been low.
Or you can even present
an exit survey if they cancel
to get more details
about the cancellation.
Now for best practices.
Using StoreKit APIs enables you
to present
a consistent experience
that helps people manage
or cancel their subscription
without ever leaving your app.
Consider creating a branded
contextual experience
to complement the
system-provided management UI.
For example, you might offer
a popular premium tier
to provide personalized
suggestions
or alternative plans
based on customer's
preferences or usage.
And review your overall
subscription management
experience
as it relates to the customer
support journey
across all your different
channels.
Now, let's take a look at
a sample Manage Subscriptions UI
in your app.
Under Account Settings,
we can add an option
for the user to manage
their subscription.
And once the customer
taps this button,
the App Store will display
the existing
Manage Subscriptions page
with the currently active
subscription
and the renewal options.
This is the same view
customers are familiar with
when they visit
Manage Subscriptions
under Account Settings
in the App Store
where they can view,
upgrade, downgrade
or cancel their subscription.
Now, if the customer selects
to cancel their subscription,
they will see
a confirmation screen
with the cancellation details
and the service expiration date.
And for any action
the user may take on this page,
you will receive
an App Store Server Notification
and your app will be notified
if you've implemented
the StoreKit 2 framework.
So with the new customer support
tools I covered today,
let's talk about the benefits
of providing support
by using these APIs.
You can now improve
your overall customer experience
by providing contextual
and seamless support
for in-app purchases
right within the app.
This increases overall retention
and improves
customer satisfaction
which leads to higher
engagement, and ultimately,
more positive ratings
and reviews for your app.
Now, I would like
to invite my colleague Joe
to talk about handling refunds.
Joe: Thanks, Manjeet,
for providing best practices
and use cases
for the new customer support
tools that have been launched.
Hi, everyone,
my name is Joe Mani,
and I'm a program manager
at the App Store.
Refunds are a sensitive topic,
and the App Store
has created tools for you
to understand the impact
of refunds on your apps
and how you can
leverage these tools
to improve
your customer experience.
I would like to highlight the
benefits of using these tools
and provide a comprehensive
message around handling refunds.
This past year,
we have launched two new tools
that have an impact to refunds.
First, let us discuss
the beginRefundRequest API.
The App Store has
Report a Problem
and Apple Support
has established paths
for customers
to request a refund.
Now in iOS 15,
the App Store introduced
a new beginRefundRequest API
in the StoreKit 2 framework
for customers to request
a refund for in-app purchases.
There are multiple benefits
for you to implement
the beginRefundRequest API.
Most of you listening
have had a customer
who has requested a refund
for your in-app purchase.
The new beginRefundRequest API
allows you to provide
the same functionality
without having
to redirect customers
and provide assistance
within the app.
If you are aware of a potential
issue with your in-app purchase,
you can use this API to help
customers troubleshoot the issue
and get a faster resolution.
In iOS 15, App Store has created
two additional notifications
specifically so you can be aware
if the refund has been
approved or denied.
If the refund is approved,
your app will be notified
and your server receives
a REFUND notification
from the App Store.
If the refund is denied,
your server receives a new
REFUND_DECLINED notification.
Note that customers will have
to be on iOS 15 or above
to use this functionality.
Let's discuss best practices.
Store the original
transaction ID
and note that most
refund requests
occur within 30 days
of the purchase.
You can provide custom-built
in-app messaging
which creates a tailored
customer experience
even when you may have
situations
where a customer is frustrated
and requesting a refund.
You have flexibility to display
contextual information
about past purchases
to the customer.
Once the customer selects
a transaction to be refunded,
you can call the API which
displays a refund request sheet
where a customer can select
from a list of reason codes,
which is consistent
with what they would see
in Apple's Report a Problem.
For autorenewable
subscriptions,
you can identify
retention strategies
to keep your customer
engaged within your app
as a successful refund
will cancel the subscription.
Now that we looked at
the beginRefundRequest,
let's talk about
what occurs after
and how you can be
more involved.
The App Store introduced
a new server API
which gives you the opportunity
to help inform and improve
the refund process by sending
consumption information to Apple
about a customer's consumable
in-app purchase,
such as whether
they consumed an item
before requesting a refund.
At a high level,
each refund request
will go through our
refund decisioning system
to render a decision.
The refund decisioning system
includes information
about the transaction at issue
and other factors
such as the customer's
purchase and refund history.
Prior to Apple
rendering a decision,
the App Store
will send your server
a CONSUMPTION_REQUEST
notification.
Your server sends
the consumption data
back to the App Store in
response to this notification,
which can influence
the refund decision.
The consumption payload
consists of a handful of fields
and I would like to discuss
three of the key fields today.
With Consumption, you can easily
tell us if an in-app purchase
has been fully, partially,
or not at all consumed.
For example, if your app
has an exchange platform
that has bartering
or if an in-app
that has been transferred
from one account
to another's account,
it is considered consumed.
With delivering content,
you may have experienced outages
or unable to deliver
in-app purchases
and you may want
to refund the customer.
Now you can simply provide
item not delivered.
With appAccountToken,
launched in StoreKit 2,
we are using
a standard UUID format
associated with your app's
user account that you create
that is initiating the purchase
and consuming the content
for the purchase,
which can help
identify resellers.
For best practices, most refund
requests occur within 30 days
so store consumption data for
your transactions accordingly.
Store the
original_transaction_ID
for each consumable
in-app purchase
so you can find the transaction
for which Apple
is requesting the data for.
To ensure Apple incorporates
your data for decisioning,
respond within 12 hours
of receiving the consumption
request notification.
Feel free to send an updated
payload within those 12 hours
if anything has changed
after the initial request.
Ensure you have obtained
customer consent
prior to sending the requested
consumption data
to the App Store.
And lastly, within the
consumption payload,
all fields are not required,
and please review
Apple documentation
for which fields
can be marked as undeclared.
To summarize today's session,
I want to provide
a checklist of key actions.
For next steps to adopt
and implement these features,
you can start configuring
and enabling your servers
to receive App Store
Server Notifications
by entering the URL
in App Store Connect
and enabling Version 2
in Sandbox.
For your customer support tools,
integrate within your existing
support channels,
either it be phone, email,
web, or in-app support.
For your app,
identify the client changes
in iOS 15 with StoreKit 2
needed to support the new
beginRefundRequest,
isEligibleforIntroOffer,
and showManageSubcriptions API.
Lastly, be sure
to take advantage
of the Sandbox testing updates
to make the most
of your Sandbox Apple IDs,
like storefront change,
clearing purchase history,
testing refunds, and adjusting
the subscription renewal rate.
This concludes the presentation,
and thank you so much
for joining us today
and learning more about
supporting customers
with StoreKit 2
and App Store Server API.